# CLI-Python

## Commands in the terminal

To interact with the CLI application, you can use the following commands in the terminal:

- `python cli.py`: This command displays a list of available commands that can be used in this CLI.

- `python cli.py users`: Use this command to retrieve and display the list of users stored in the `.json` file.

- `python cli.py new --name nameOfNewUser --lastname lastNameOfNewUser`: Use this command to create a new user. The `--name` parameter specifies the name of the new user, and the `--lastname` parameter specifies the last name. Both parameters are required for creating a new user.

- `python cli.py user #id`: Use this command to view the data of a specific user. Replace `#id` with the unique identifier (id) of the user you want to see.

- `python cli.py delete #id`: Use this command to delete a user from the storage file. Replace `#id` with the id of the user you want to remove.

- `python cli.py update #id --name nameUpdatedForUser`: Use this command to update the name of a user with a specific id. Replace `#id` with the id of the user, and provide the `--name` parameter followed by the updated name.

- `python cli.py update #id --lastname lastnameUpdatedForUser`: Use this command to update the last name of a user with a specific id. Replace `#id` with the id of the user, and provide the `--lastname` parameter followed by the updated last name.


## Developer Guide: Creating a Console Application

This guide provides step-by-step instructions for setting up a console application using Python.

### 1. Virtual Environment Setup

To isolate the dependencies of the project, we will use a virtual environment. Follow these steps to set it up:

- Open a terminal and execute the following command to install `venv`:

```python -m venv venv```

### 2. Authorizing Script Execution

To enable script execution, you need to authorize access. Follow these steps:

- Open another terminal and execute the following command:

```Set-ExecutionPolicy -Scope Process -ExecutionPolicy Bypass```

### 3. Activating the Virtual Environment

To activate the virtual environment and start working on the project, follow these steps:

- Open a new terminal.

- Run the following command to activate the virtual environment:

```& .\venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1```


With the virtual environment set up and activated, you are now ready to develop your console application.

Feel free to modify the above steps based on your specific requirements or project setup.

## Data Storage

For this project, we will utilize a `.json` file to store all the data generated by the application. However, you can choose alternative file formats such as CSV or Excel (.xls) if preferred.

### Viewing the Objects in the .json File

To view the objects stored in the `.json` file, execute the following command:
```python cli.py user```